---
applyTo: "**/*.tf,**/*.tfvars"
---
## Terraform code generation instructions

### General rules
- Use latest stable Terraform version: 1.13.0 or later.
- Use latest stable provider versions.
- Generate terraform resources code for azurerm provider version 4.0.0 or later, NOT for 3.x or earlier.

### Terminology
Consider the following terminology in the instructions:
- Terraform module (or module) - that is a content of `./modules/<module_name>` folder or external module from registry.
- Terraform module instance (or module instance) - that is a particular instance of the module created with `module` block.
- Resource identifier - that is resource identifier in the terraform state for example: `azurerm_resource_group.rg["neu"]`.
- Resource index - that is the key or index in the resource identifier for resources created with `for_each` or `count`. For example: `neu` in `azurerm_resource_group.rg["neu"]`.

### Generation validation
- Check if terraform code syntax is correct using `terraform validate` command.
- Install pre-commit hooks to check syntax before commit.
- Use `terraform fmt -recursive` to format your code before commit.
- Use tflint to check module for best practices.

### Resources relation management
- DO NOT generate `depends_on` statements in Terraform resources.
- Terraform automatically infers dependencies from resource references.
- Explicit `depends_on` can cause unnecessary complexity and potential issues.
- Let Terraform handle dependency management implicitly through resource attribute references.
- If not possible to link resources with properties, try using tags or metadata. For example: `tags = { related_resource_name = azurerm_resource.example.name }`.
- DO NOT use data readers to read resources created in the same Terraform working directory. Use direct references instead.
- Each exception from these rules must have the comment explaining why other approach is not possible.

### File structure for infra repositories
- The root of repository is Terraform working directory.
- Don't generate `.terraform.lock.hcl` file, it should be generated by `terraform init` command.
- Make sure .lock.hcl file is NOT added to .gitignore file. 
- Terraform lock file should be added to the repository.
- All evironment specific configuration should be in {environment_name}.tfvars file. Environments are dev, test, pt, live, global, rnd.
- `providers.tf` file should be in the root directory. It should contain general providers, which don't need extra data readers to read credentials like azurerm, random, etc.
- `provider.{provider_name}.tf` contains specific provider with data readers to read credentials like kubernetes, vault, or even azurerm if it has related data readers. Goal of separate file to correlate datareader and provider.
- `variables.tf` file should contain variables for tfvar files stored in `environments` directory.

### Terraform file (.tf) name conventions
- The single terraform file (tf file) should be similar as python module or pascal class: it should contains all resources and locals for the particular purpose.
- Keep the tf file resources count as less as possible.
- Locals used only in that file should be on the top of the file.
- If few files shares the same locals, then locals should be placed to the `locals.tf`.
- Tf file name should reflect the type of main resource and purpose. For example: "tfstate_rg" stores resource group for resources for storing tfstate files.
- Use snake_case for all variables and resources names and file names, kebab-case not allowed.
- TF file should contain one main resource and multiple related resources which closely related to the main resource. For example: storage account and role assignments.
- TF file should contain only one level related resources. For example, not allowed two levels of related resources in one file: storage account -> blob container -> container role assignments.
- TF file for module instance should have the same name as the module instance name.

### Modules and resources name conventions
- Use only low case letters and underscores in tf file names.
- Modules and resources names should reflect the purpose, prior resource type. 

### Terraform variables type definitions
- Don't use `any` in types definition for variables and outputs.
- Do type check: check if modules variable type corresponds the external variable type.
- Try to guess if variable or object property is required or optional based on provider resource documentation or external variable type.
- Terraform variable name should be the same as the resource property name where the variable is used. For example: `location` variable for `location` property of `azurerm_resource_group` resource.

### Local modules
- Local modules should be created in `./modules/` folder.
- Local modules should have `variables.tf`, `outputs.tf` and `terraform.tf` files.
- The `terraform.tf` for the module file should contain `required_providers`.
- Module should have clear input and output. 
- If module requires some data, readers should be outside and pass values via input variables.
- If module produces some secrets, preferably the secrets being passed via output variables. Except cases when modules have deep hierarchy.
- Avoid nested maps transformation to the flat structure. Prefer create modules hierarchy to handle nested maps.

### for_each and count statements
- Use `for_each` instead of `count` wherever possible.
- Use maps or sets for `for_each` instead of lists wherever possible.
- If there are few resources using the same map for `for_each`, consider using the local module to do `for_each` over the module, but not for each resource.
- Avoid many-to-many relations with `for_each` over lists. Consider using one `for_each` for module and another `for_each` inside the module to handle many-to-many relations.
- Don't use id as key for `for_each`, if the `for_each` used to create resources. Resource index should be human readable.
- Even if key is not used in the resource properties, it should be defined to make plan review easier.